README.md, before:

# PHP Postcodes

This library handles various UK postcode related tasks.

## Features

* Address lookup by postcode
* Postcode validation
* Generate valid UK postcodes
* Get a postcode's outward and inward codes

## Installation

To install, just run the following composer command.

`composer require rapidwebltd/php-postcodes`

## Setup

### Ideal Postcodes

Using some of the data retrieval features provided by this library requires an Ideal Postcodes 
API key. Sign up at https://ideal-postcodes.co.uk if you need to use these features.

If you are using a `.env` file or another way of manage environment variables in your 
project, set the following variable to specify the Ideal Postcode.

```
IDEAL_POSTCODES_API_KEY=abcdef
```

You can then use the following code to get an `IdealPostcodes` object.

```php
$idealPostcodes = \RapidWeb\Postcodes\Factories\IdealPostcodesFactory::getByEnvironment();
```

If you are not using environment variables in your project, simple pass through the API
key as follows.

```php
$idealPostcodes = \RapidWeb\Postcodes\Factories\IdealPostcodesFactory::getByAPIKey('abdef');
```

## Usage

### Get addresses by postcode

To retrieve the addreses associated with a UK postcode, just pass it to the method shown below. 
You will receive an array of addresses, appropriately split by their address lines.

```php
$addresses = $idealPostcodes->getAddressesByPostcode('ST163DP');
```

### Validate postcode

You can validate a UK postcode is correct using the `Validator` utility class. An example of 
how to do so is shown below.

```php
$validated = \RapidWeb\Postcodes\Utils\Validator::validatePostcode('ST163DP');
```

Please note that the postcode validation is case insensitive.

### Generate postcode

This library allows you generate a random, validate, UK postcode. This makes use of the
`Generator` utility class, as shown below.

```php
$postcode = \RapidWeb\Postcodes\Utils\Generator::generatePostcode();
```

### Get outward and inward codes

> The first part of the Postcode eg PO1 is called the outward code as it identifies the town or district to which the letter is to be sent for further sorting. The second part of the postcode eg 1EB is called the inward code.

```php
$outwardCode = \RapidWeb\Postcodes\Utils\Tokenizer::outward('ST163JR'); // Returns ST16
$inwardCode = \RapidWeb\Postcodes\Utils\Tokenizer::inward('ST163JR'); // Returns 3JR
```

Commit message:

Initial work of Postcode Anywhere integration

README.md, after:

# PHP Postcodes

This library handles various UK postcode related tasks.

## Features

* Address lookup by postcode
* Postcode validation
* Generate valid UK postcodes
* Get a postcode's outward and inward codes

## Installation

To install, just run the following composer command.

`composer require rapidwebltd/php-postcodes`

## Setup

### Ideal Postcodes

Using some of the data retrieval features provided by this library requires an Ideal Postcodes 
API key. Sign up at https://ideal-postcodes.co.uk if you need to use these features.

You can then use the following code to get an `IdealPostcodes` object.

```php
$idealPostcodes = new \RapidWeb\Postcodes\Objects\IdealPostcodes('API_KEY');
```


### Postcode Anywhere (PCA Predict) 

Using some of the data retrieval features provided by this library requires an Postcode Anywhere (PCA Predict) 
API key. Sign up at https://www.pcapredict.com/ if you need to use these features.

You can then use the following code to get an `PostcodeAnywhere` object.

```php
$postcodeAnywhere = new \RapidWeb\Postcodes\Objects\PostcodeAnywhere('API_KEY');
```

## Usage

### Get addresses by postcode

To retrieve the addreses associated with a UK postcode, just pass it to the method shown below. 
You will receive an array of addresses, appropriately split by their address lines.

```php
$addresses = $idealPostcodes->getAddressesByPostcode('ST163DP');
```

### Validate postcode

You can validate a UK postcode is correct using the `Validator` utility class. An example of 
how to do so is shown below.

```php
$validated = \RapidWeb\Postcodes\Utils\Validator::validatePostcode('ST163DP');
```

Please note that the postcode validation is case insensitive.

### Generate postcode

This library allows you generate a random, validate, UK postcode. This makes use of the
`Generator` utility class, as shown below.

```php
$postcode = \RapidWeb\Postcodes\Utils\Generator::generatePostcode();
```

### Get outward and inward codes

> The first part of the Postcode eg PO1 is called the outward code as it identifies the town or district to which the letter is to be sent for further sorting. The second part of the postcode eg 1EB is called the inward code.

```php
$outwardCode = \RapidWeb\Postcodes\Utils\Tokenizer::outward('ST163JR'); // Returns ST16
$inwardCode = \RapidWeb\Postcodes\Utils\Tokenizer::inward('ST163JR'); // Returns 3JR
```
